.agents/skills/execute-test-case/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: execute-test-case
description: "Executes a single approved test case and returns a strict JSON result payload. Invoked by: bun nvst execute test-plan."
user-invocable: false
---

# Execute Test Case

Execute exactly one test case from the approved test plan.

All generated content must be in English.

## Inputs

Use the provided context sections:
- `project_context`: project conventions, runtime, quality checks, and constraints
- `test_case_definition`: one test case object with id, description, mode, and correlated requirements

## Execution Rules

1. Read the full `test_case_definition` before running commands.
2. Follow constraints from `project_context` when selecting commands, environment setup, and verification steps.
3. Execute only what is required for this single test case.
4. Capture concise evidence from command outputs or observed results.
5. Determine outcome:
   - `passed`: acceptance for this test case was satisfied
   - `failed`: acceptance for this test case was not satisfied
   - `skipped`: test case cannot be executed due to a justified blocker

## Output Contract (Mandatory)

Return only JSON with this exact shape:

```json
{
  "status": "passed|failed|skipped",
  "evidence": "string",
  "notes": "string"
}
```

Do not output markdown or additional text outside the JSON object.

Commit message:

feat: implement US-003 - Update Execute-Test-Case Skill for Batch Mode

.agents/skills/execute-test-case/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: execute-test-case
description: "Executes a batch of approved test cases and returns a strict JSON array of result payloads. Invoked by: bun nvst execute test-plan."
user-invocable: false
---

# Execute Test Case

Execute all provided test cases from the approved test plan in a single session.

All generated content must be in English.

## Inputs

Use the provided context sections:
- `project_context`: project conventions, runtime, quality checks, and constraints
- `test_cases`: JSON array of test case objects, each with id, description, mode, and correlated requirements

## Execution Rules

1. Read all test cases in `test_cases` before running any commands.
2. Follow constraints from `project_context` when selecting commands, environment setup, and verification steps.
3. Execute each test case in order. Share session context (e.g. environment setup, installed dependencies) across test cases to avoid redundant work.
4. Capture concise evidence from command outputs or observed results for each test case.
5. Determine outcome per test case:
   - `passed`: acceptance for this test case was satisfied
   - `failed`: acceptance for this test case was not satisfied
   - `skipped`: test case cannot be executed due to a justified blocker

## Output Contract (Mandatory)

Return only a JSON array with one result object per test case, in the same order as the input. Each object must have this exact shape:

```json
[
  {
    "testCaseId": "the test case id",
    "status": "passed|failed|skipped",
    "evidence": "string",
    "notes": "string"
  }
]
```

Every test case in the input must have a corresponding result in the output array.

Do not output markdown or additional text outside the JSON array.
